Q: Can you describe in your own words the navigation stack?

A: First you need to make a map through SLAM, because this is a chicken and egg problem well covered in literature. Once you have a map you receive a goal of where you want to go, and assuming an occupancy grid map approach, you need to solve a global path planning problem typically solved with search algorithms such as A* or Dijkstra. Once you have a global path plan in hand you need to follow it with a local planner. There are several local planners available that are able to provide a solution. Depending on the kinematics of your base you generate the best trajectory that the robot executes next. In Dynamic Window Approach (DWA) you first generate multiple random samples in the robot velocity space (e.g. Vx, Vtheta for a diff drive robot), then forward simulate them for a small amount of time using a robot model, then score the candidate trajectories with different weights, like path or goal bias. Finally you pick the trajectory that scored best and send it to the controller for execution. These is the basic explanation behind move base, however, you also have some mechanisms in case something goes wrong so that you can recover from the situation. For instance one of them is to rotate the base and try to clear the costmaps by gathering more readings from the sensors (typically lidar). Another one is to consider the costmap obstacles as repulsive points in a vector field, and the sum of the repulsive vectors gives you the direction to move to get away from obstacles, this proved to be very effective in practice.

[[Environment representation]]
[[Planning]]
[[Control]]

#P1 